Before we move on to working in the chat
app, I just wanna talk a little bit
about what we did in our tsconfig,
cuz we kind of glossed over that.
And I'm gonna move a little bit quickly
here cuz I think we already covered some
of these to some extent.
But I'll sort of pause on ones that I
feel are particularly interesting and
if you have questions about
what we can do in ts.config or
what I think best practices are,
this would be a great time to ask.
And of course noImplicitAny of this forces
any typed value to be explicitly typed
as such.
I think that early on in a, when you're
converting a JavaScript project to
TypeScript, this makes a lot of sense
to relax, where you'd say, sure,
I can have implicit anys
just from the start.
But generally you wanna end up in
a place where this is switched on,
meaning implicit anys are forbidden.
And there's always an escape hatch here,
right?
You can always explicitly type something
as any so there's never really a,
something that's in your way
from enabling this role.
There's something safe you can do
that will allow you to sort of
turn this role on and so
you can hold the line and
stop any new implicit anys from
being added to the codebase.
noIimplicitThis we talked about this
a lot in the In the intermediate
TypeScript course,
when we were dealing with this types,
it just relates to functions that
require a special this type.
And the classic example here is,
if you do add event listener,
we have a button element,
we're adding an event listener for clicks.
Note that this type in this function type,
it's the HTML button element itself.
If in here we're like saying this.class
name, if you're gonna rely on
this being a particular thing,
you need to be explicit about it.
You're not allowed to
just reach into this and
hope that it is what you wanted it to be.
Not something you need to
worry about in class methods.
It's taken care of for
you there AlwaysStrict,
we don't need to talk about that.
That's just JavaScript's use strict.
strictBindCallApply, this is really for
just three methods on function,
bind, call and apply, and it ensures that
they behave as you would hope they would
behave in a strongly-typed world.
Strict null checks, this is a big one.
Without turning this one on,
you're allowed to use null
in any TypeScript type.
Null is an allowed value everywhere,
which is dangerous, right?
This is one of the most low-level things
that you hope TypeScript takes care of for
you, where you have confidence
whether something's there or not.
So I, when I'm converting
a JavaScript codebase in TypeScript,
I turn this on pretty early.
It's one of the things that I'm
most eager to sort of root out any
violators of this and
get some bug fixes in there.
strictFunctionTypes, we talked about
this a lot in the last chapter of
intermediate TypeScript where we
covered covariance and contravariance,
without turning this on, function
types do not behave as you would hope.
They are treated in a bivariate way,
which means if you have
a callback type that needs to operate
on a base class of something,
and it should be able to handle
all subclasses of that base class.
Without turning this on,
you can do things like this,
where we have an animal and dog and
cats are subtypes of animals.
This here, I think I have
strictFunctionTypes on here, but
if you had it disabled,
you'd be able to make this assignment.
You'd say the function that takes
in a dog and assumes it's a dog,
can be used in place for a function that
should be able to take any kind of animal.
This is gonna be a problem, right?
You're gonna start getting cats
passing into this function.
TypeScript will not have warned
you that this is a thing.
So it's specifically this kind
of undesired flexibility that
strictFunctionTypes helps catch.
And if you wanna learn more, the last
chapter of intermediate TypeScript,
I think it's called type parameters and
variants, goes into this in some amount of
detail, and
I think it's a really interesting concept.
strictPropertyInitialization, so
this is mainly class fields that you
get yelled at if you didn't certainly
assign these fields of value by the time
the constructor finishes being invoked.
Again, we cover this in intermediate
TypeScript where we talk about a rare case
where, you, in a promise executor, the
callback you pass the promise constructor.
If you are inside of that or initializing
class fields on the outer class.
That's where you'd use the definite
assignment operator because that function
is invoked synchronously, by the time
you get the instance of the promise,
that promise executor is for
sure done invoking.
But this is, very much related to
that definite assignment concept.
So I would call these,
these are really, what do I call them?
It's the basic, yeah,
this is just sort of strict mode.
This is when you say strict true,
this is what you get.
If we take things to the next level,
we can have TypeScript be the thing in our
project that warns us about unused
local variables and unused parameters.
I really like using TypeScript for this.
You can set up ES lint to do it too.
But it lets you have this convention
where you can prepend something with
an underscore.
And TypeScript will say, all right,
you know it's an unused parameter.
And you've named the variable as such.
And this is super easy,
super important when you have a callback.
Where you take the first argument,
you ignore the second and then you take
the third and you can just instead of
doing ES lint disabled stuff which will,
that I'll ignore the whole line.
For a particular rule, this is just
a very precise way of doing this and
it's a well understood convention that
spans multiple programming languages.
Prepended_ means either private or
I'm not using this.
noImplicitReturns, this is not
necessarily about being explicit
about functions returning a specific type,
but
it's about all code paths
returning nothing or something.
So if you had a function you're
calling and you had an if, and
inside that if you return,
I don't know, an array of numbers.
And then, you just leave it there, right?
There's no else.
There's no return at the bottom.
This would yell at you about that.
You either have to return explicitly,
even if it's just return with
nothing after it, right?
You're saying return nothing.
You have to either do that
on all code paths, or
it's a purely side effect function
that is never returning anything.
This captures a lot of errors because
sometimes you just forgot to do something.
And whenever you're returning that's an
indication that someone wants to consume
what you're returning.
And so often, this is a good chance to
return a null instead of undefined,
cuz you're it's not the absence of
a return, you want something there.
I told you about this one being
disabled as my preference.
I'm okay with fall through cases and
switch.
We can move on there.
We talked about types,
we talked about strip internal.
exactOptionalPropertyTypes is
interesting here.
And what this stops you
from doing is this.
So on this object here,
we have an optional volume property,
which is a number.
And we're setting it to undefined,
which you would think you could do, right?
You can certainly find an undefined
value by accessing this property,
if it's not set, right?
It's optional.
It could be undefined.
But this is not a great practice because
you're not getting rid of this property.
You are providing it with a value,
and that value is undefined.
And so if you did, object.keys on
this thing, it would say, yeah,
I have something for volume or
if you did object.hasOwnProperty for this.
Do you have a volume property?
It certainly does, and
it's containing an undefined.
This is the better practice if you really
wanna get rid of something on an optional
field like this.
So I think this is a very
common sense thing to turn on.
Anytime you see this here, is a good
indication you wanna move down here.
But again,
someone might be depending on that.keys
having a particular key in there.
This is not one that you
could sort of say, I know for
sure I'll never break anybody
by making this change.
You are changing some things but
what I would tend to do is say I
would give a prompt attention to
any kind of patterns like this.
Yeah, here are the violators.
Yeah, also a let key in, a for
in loop will also iterate over
this volume property because
something's there, right?
noUncheckedIndexAccess, in
a previous version of my TypeScript
courses I used to say when you're
operating on a dictionary type.
Make sure you account for the fact that
under a given key in a dictionary,
you might find nothing, right?
If it's a dictionary of
address book entries,
If you just type it as index signature:t,
you're kind off saying
that no matter what key you look up here,
you will always get a type back,
and that's just not
the case with dictionaries.
So I used to say make sure it's t or
undefined.
But we don't have to do that anymore.
So what we can see here, we have a little
bit of a combination of an index
signature here with some known properties.
So these will be present, for sure.
Name, home phone, cell phone,
but you could have some other
loosely structured details
about this phonebook entry, and
they could be there or
they could not be there.
We don't know for sure.
So you can see when we access name,
we get the string.
Office phone, we get string or undefined.
So I don't have to put or
undefined right here.
There's a compiler setting that says
whenever there is an index signature,
no uncheckedIndexedAccess.
The typescript will for you,
indicate the possibility correctly
that something might not be there.
All right, this is a very related compiler
setting that I think is quite nice.
It forces you to use .notation like this,
for accessing known properties, right?
We know this is here, right?
But it's gonna want you to right
square bracket notation to
access object office phone.
And this,
it's a great improvement to readability.
So that you when you're
just looking at this code,
maybe you import that interface
from another file and
so you're not paying too much attention to
what's the definitely here thing versus
what's the little extra thing that
could be there, could not be there.
And if you have square bracket, you can
do this to excess properties, right?
You don't have to use .notation.
You can just treat it like
an associative array almost and
pass the string in as the key.
npImplicitOverride, we covered
this in TypeScript fundamentals,
the override keyword,
it's relatively new to TypeScript.
And it it sort of enforces that
when you're trying to shadow
a base classe's method,
you must use the override keyword and
this checks and
catches all sorts of refactoring problems.
Where you change the name of a method.
But something else like you didn't
change the subclass like this.
You have the override keyword.
This will, it'll catch it.
And specifically what this rule does
is it, whenever you are shadowing
a method of a subclass, it will say,
put the override method here.
You should indicate you're overriding
a base class, and then in the future,
someone comes along and
they change one or the other.
And you're not in that shadowing situation
again, where you have two methods of
the same name on the base class and
subclass, it'll bust you on it.
It'll let you know that like, look,
you should refactor both or neither.
I talked a little bit about viral options,
where if you're publishing a library,
enabling any of these will effectively
force all consumers of your library to
enable these as well.
These effectively let you check your
types a little bit differently,
but they will be the same types that
were bugging you before when these
settings were turned off.
So your declaration files
that your library spits out,
it's quite possible they wouldn't have
worked unless you turned these flags on.
And then once you turn the flags on,
those declaration files still have to
work with every consumer of your library.
That's what makes them viral.
Meaning if one of your dependencies
uses these flags and needs these flags
turned on to compile every, you have
to turn it on for your whole project.
We talked about this in one
of the early courses, right?
This option makes it so that caught things
are unknown, this prevents you from
assuming that they're errors without doing
an instance of check, which is great.
>> I'm getting a bunch of
TypeScript slash ESLint errors in
my editor in the test file now
probably because we changed
the stringify error to beta,
how would you fix this?
>> Yeah that's a good question.
I can show you exactly how I'd fix this.
So let's verify that that's
exactly what we're getting.
Hey, look at that,
no exported methods stringify error.
This is because let's see if this
takes me to the declaration file.
It does now,
these are the types that I'm consuming.
This is the standard lib.d.ts file.
So in this tsconfig,
what I can do is say sorry,
it's in the compiler options, paths.
''chat-stdlib'', I can say let's see.
['' ../dist/chat-stdlib-beta.d.ts'']
Something like that.
So this is what a beta consumer
of your library would have to do.
It would be a slightly different path,
right?
They'd be looking into
their node modules folder.
Be like Nodemodules//chat-stdlib/dist/give
me the beta one,
I wanna use the beta types for this.
So what you're saying here is TypeScript
shouldn't just try to be clever and
resolve the types the way
everybody else would get them.
What you're saying is for this library,
use that declaration file specifically.
This is what I mean by
explicit opt-in to the beta.
I can tell there's no more red title here.
There's my stringify error
function coming through.
So I've opted into the beta.
This would be a great place where,
say you wanna use the private stuff for
your tests.
But you have control over it.
It's not just sort of you get everything.
And then, I prefer to have my tests sort
of, test a library from the outside.
But through the beta
surface would be fine.
Gotta have tests for your beta stuff.